The dog (Canis familiaris or Canis lupus familiaris) is a domesticated descendant of the wolf. The dog was the first species to be domesticated by humans. The dog has been selectively bred over millennia for various behaviors, sensory capabilities, and physical attributes. They perform many roles for humans, such as hunting, herding, pulling loads, protection, assisting police and the military, companionship, therapy, and aiding disabled people. Canis is the Latin word meaning "dog", and under this genus, he listed the domestic dog, the wolf, and the golden jackal. In 1999, a study of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) indicated that the domestic dog may have originated from the grey wolf, with the dingo and New Guinea singing dog breeds having developed at a time when human communities were more isolated from each other. Evolution
Domestication
The earliest remains generally accepted to be those of a domesticated dog were discovered in Bonn-Oberkassel, Germany. The dog is a classic example of a domestic animal that likely travelled a commensal pathway into domestication. Senses
A dog's senses include vision, hearing, smell, taste, touch. Breeds may have an occasional "blaze", stripe, or "star" of white fur on their chest or underside. In some hunting dogs the tail is traditionally docked to avoid injuries. Two severe medical conditions significantly affecting dogs are pyometra, affecting unspayed females of all breeds and ages, and Gastric dilatation volvulus (bloat), which affects larger breeds or deep-chested dogs. Both of these are acute conditions and can kill rapidly. The nicotine in tobacco can also be dangerous to dogs. An average litter consists of about six puppies. According to the Humane Society of the United States, three to four million dogs and cats are euthanized each year. Neutering reduces problems caused by hypersexuality, especially in male dogs. As a result of this physical and social evolution, dogs have acquired the ability to understand and communicate with humans more than any other species and they are uniquely attuned to human behaviors. These genes have been shown to affect the catecholamine synthesis pathway, with the majority of the genes affecting the fight-or-flight response (i.e., selection for tameness) and emotional processing. Traits of high sociability and lack of fear in dogs may include genetic modifications related to Williams-Beuren syndrome in humans, which cause hypersociability at the expense of problem-solving ability. A study with Rico, a Border Collie, showed that he knew the labels of over 200 different items. A study of another Border Collie, Chaser, documented his learning and memory capabilities. Dogs demonstrate a theory of mind by engaging in deception. About 20% of dogs live as pets in developed countries. In the developing world, dogs are typically feral or communally owned, with pet dogs uncommon. Most of these dogs live their lives as scavengers and have never been owned by humans, with one study showing their most common response when approached by strangers is to run away (52%) or respond aggressively (11%). Although wolves are known to kill dogs, they tend to live in pairs or in small packs in areas where they are highly persecuted, giving them a disadvantage facing large dog groups. Similar to humans, some dog breeds produce amylase in their saliva and are classified as having a high starch diet. These nutritional requirements place dogs halfway between carnivores and omnivores. This influence on human society has given them the nickname "man's best friend" in the Western world. The first has been "commodification", shaping it to conform to social expectations of personality and behavior. The majority of contemporary dog owners describe their pet as part of the family, although some ambivalence about the relationship is evident in the popular reconceptualization of the dog-human family as a pack. However, it has been disputed that "trying to achieve status" is characteristic of dog-human interactions. There does not seem to be any sex preference among dogs as pets, as the statistical data reveal an equal number of male and female pet dogs. Dog meat is also consumed in some parts of Switzerland. Variations of the dish contain chicken and bamboo shoots. Health risks
In 2018, the WHO reported that 59,000 people died globally from rabies, with 59.6% in Asia and 36.4% in Africa. Significant dog bites affect tens of millions of people globally each year. They are more likely to need medical treatment and have the highest death rate. It has been estimated that around 2% of dog-related injuries treated in U.K. hospitals are domestic accidents. The same study found that while dog involvement in road traffic accidents was difficult to quantify, dog-associated road accidents involving injury more commonly involved two-wheeled vehicles. Earlier studies have shown that people who keep pet dogs or cats exhibit better mental and physical health than those who do not, making fewer visits to the doctor and being less likely to be on medication than non-guardians. Pet guardianship has also been associated with increased coronary artery disease survival. In the Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian periods, dogs were used as emblems of magical protection. In China, Korea and Japan, dogs are viewed as kind protectors. In Welsh mythology, Annwn is guarded by Cŵn Annwn. In Hindu mythology, Yama, the god of death, owns two watchdogs who have four eyes. A black dog is also considered to be the vahana (vehicle) of Bhairava (an incarnation of Shiva).In Christianity, dogs represent faithfulness. Puppy or pup – a young member of the species (or subspecies) under 12 months old. See also
References
Bibliography
Boitani, Luigi; Mech, L. David (2003). Wolves: Behavior, Ecology, and Conservation. Coppinger, Raymond; Schneider, Richard (1995). " doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199295852.001.0001. The Dingo Debate: Origins, Behaviour and Conservation. Dogs: Their Fossil Relatives and Evolutionary History.